So in this session today,
we're going to cover some of the
new things in QuickTime's APIs.
We're also going to talk
about the basics of QuickTime,
what you can do with
QuickTime in your application.
As you already know,
QuickTime offers for your application
the ability to play back media,
the ability to capture media from the
analog world or from the digital world.
It offers you the ability to create
content inside of your applications,
even to create content from your
documents that you might not consider
as having anything to do with
video or anything to do with audio,
and we'll show you some of that today.
You have the ability, of course,
to edit already created
content in your applications.
And finally,
QuickTime offers you the ability to
create content from your applications.
It also offers you an ability to
deliver media out to the world.
Did we mention something about the 100
million downloads of QuickTime 6 today?
Also the fact that our
plug-in for browsers is well
integrated with browsers.
All the browsers that we support,
it's about this long.
We have the ability to deliver
media via people's .Mac accounts.
We have the ability to stream media,
and there was something about 100
million downloads of QuickTime 6
since it was first introduced as well,
I think I might have mentioned.
So anyway, you have no problem delivering
QuickTime media to the world.
world.
One of the topics we're going
to cover today is QuickTime's
platform citizenship.
What does this mean?
As you may know,
QuickTime's native platform
was the classic Mac OS.
It originally shipped, I think,
at the beginning of 1991.
Someone will correct me if I'm wrong.
And at that time,
the current Mac OS was System 7.
We ran on System 6 at that time as well.
And some things have changed, one or two,
in the ensuing years.
We're going to talk here at this
session about how good a citizen
QuickTime is on today's platforms.
And as I mentioned,
we're going to talk about
some of what's new here.
What you will learn in this session,
well, you've already learned what you can
do in your application with QuickTime,
so if that's the only reason you came,
thank you very much.
There are other sessions
next door and down the hall.
Also, we're going to talk about media
facilities for the modern OS.
I have no idea what that means,
but it's just a way to get you
to stay instead of leaving.
Also we're going to talk about
what has changed in the OS and
how QuickTime is changing with it.
We're going to cover some answers to
common questions during this session.
Here, right here,
from this stage you will learn how
to open a movie giving a path to
a file in the form of a CFString.
What if I have a CFURL that
points to some media?
How do I open a movie
that I can play from that?
Well, what if I'm trying to draw to a
CG context and I have a QuickTime movie?
How do I do that?
Am I building up the tension
for you appropriately?
and other questions we're
going to cover as well.
If we don't answer your specific
question in this session,
fire me and come to the QuickTime lab.
It's in Sacramento,
which is downstairs near the cafe.
It's not up Highway 80.
Okay, also in this session,
we're going to cover the use
of QuickTime with a number
of different frameworks,
technological frameworks that you may
be using to develop your applications.
We'll cover QuickTime in Carbon,
of course.
QuickTime is, in fact,
a Carbon API itself,
so that's an easy one.
We're going to cover
QuickTime with Cocoa,
QuickTime for Java, and also, by the way,
many of the APIs, if not all of them,
I can't specify,
are available for Win32 as well.
So if you're building
applications using Win32 APIs,
we have solutions for you for media.
Okay.
So you've seen already at the
show a number of prime examples
of what QuickTime can do in
applications and you probably use
some of these in your own work.
We have some obvious ones on this list.
iMovie, Final Cut Pro,
Final Cut Express create video.
So you would fully expect that some
use of QuickTime is going on under the
covers and I can confirm without a doubt
that it is rumored that there is some
use of QuickTime in those applications.
But QuickTime is also used in
other applications that you might
not immediately connect it with.
And I have a list of some of
them here and in fact I'll
show you one or two right now.
If I could have demo one up.
I like this better.
This is not the long walk
that we have downstairs.
Okay, I'll decide later.
So I have iPhoto here.
iPhoto is an application
that works with still images.
Of course, it works with your digital
camera seamlessly so that you can
import images from your camera.
You can edit them.
You can make different
things out of iPhoto.
Photo albums, slideshows.
QuickTime is actually used
quite extensively in this
application for importing images,
for reading image formats,
for creating thumbnails.
But there's some other interesting
things going on here as well.
iPhoto is capable of creating digital
media in the form of QuickTime movies.
There's an export item here from the
file menu that you might not have seen.
It has a QuickTime choice up
here in this panel that allows
you to create slideshows.
I've created a couple of them for you.
have a confession to make, and that is,
in about 20 minutes, my son is playing in
a Little League game.
So since I can't be there,
I thought that I'd take
a little look here.
So these, of course, are images that were
imported off of a camera,
and iPhoto has made a nice
slideshow of them for me,
and it's added some nice effects here
that QuickTime is currently rendering.
It's exported those images along
with a description of the effects out
to a form that QuickTime can read,
and this can now all be delivered
in the form of a QuickTime movie.
Well, I don't really like the speed at
which iPhoto has set the dissolves.
It's using a uniform time
for all the dissolves.
So what I actually did was
I went and I exported two
more slideshows from iPhoto,
and I have some of the slides here.
[Transcript missing]
I've just pasted that part of
the other slide show in here.
So here's an example just using
copy and paste editing how
QuickTime can combine media together.
All of the facilities for importing
and playing this media are available
to your applications as well.
One other app that I wanted to
show you that you might assume
uses QuickTime media is Keynote.
And of course it does.
You can drag and drop media onto
slides in Keynote and Keynote will
be able to play that media on slides.
But what you might not be aware of
is Keynote can also create movies.
You can export your presentations
to QuickTime movies.
Let me show you what
that might look like.
In Keynote's export menu,
it drops down a nice sheet,
gives you some choices.
One of them is QuickTime.
From Keynote you can create interactive
slideshows which have the same ability
to be controlled by the mouse and
the keyboard as Keynote has itself.
You can also create self-playing movies
with timed builds and timed transitions.
I went ahead and I created a
movie that has all of the slides
for this session right here.
Let me close up some windows.
Now I made this a very small one
so I could email it to you after
our presentation is over so you
can review this at your leisure.
What I'm doing here is I'm controlling
this movie in exactly the same way
that I control the slides in Keynote.
I'm using the right arrow
key to step through.
I think what I'll do is email this to
my mom afterwards so she knows what
I've been up to for the last two weeks.
Okay,
so the point of these demos is that you
can do this in your applications as well,
and we're going to talk about how
you can do that in this session.
Can we go back to slides, please?
I know it's confusing because
we were showing the slides,
but I want to go to these slides.
Okay, first some abstractions,
some things that have not changed
in the last 12 or 13 years since
QuickTime was originally just
a gleam in Jim Batson's eye.
Some of the fundamental abstractions
that you will want to be aware of
if you use QuickTime APIs we're
going to go over right now.
First of all, what is a QuickTime movie?
Well, it's just an organizing principle.
It's just a catalog that tells
what media should be played,
in what order it should be played,
and what its spatial relationships are.
Formerly,
a catalog of playable and editable
content that describes the
sources and types of content to be
played together with its spatial
and temporal organization.
took me a while to come up with that.
Inside of a movie,
there can be one or more tracks.
A track is just a sequence of media.
It has a shared set of properties,
spatial and temporal,
and typically also has
the same characteristics.
So a track would typically be all
audio or all video or perhaps all MPEG.
A track plays media.
Notice that we've gone three levels
of abstraction down and we haven't
talked about actual content yet.
A movie is just a catalog.
A track is just a sequence.
Well, finally we've gotten to the level
where we're actually talking
about what bits get played.
The media is just a
container of playable stuff,
an MPEG-4 file, a WAV file,
a QuickTime movie file
is also an example.
and in this particular graphic,
what you see is a single track which
plays one media file for one section and
follows that up with a second media file.
How does a track, how does media find the
media that it plays?
By means of data references.
Data references are actually
the main abstraction that we're
going to talk about for the next
several minutes in this session.
It's just a way for us, QuickTime,
to find the media that
needs to be played.
Some specifics,
it's a handle-based data structure.
This is important for you to know.
The handle,
from the parlance of the classic
Macintosh memory manager,
now the Carbon memory manager,
you will call disposeHandle to dispose
of a data reference that you create.
And you'll use other handle-based
APIs for manipulating it.
How big is it?
Call getHandleSize and so forth.
It's semi-opaque because some types
of data reference we don't publish.
Some of them we publish the
format of and some we do.
For example,
one popular form of data reference
is a CarbonAliasManagerAlias.
So you can actually take a look
and see what's in there and use the
AliasManager APIs together with those.
But some of them are also opaque.
Now using these simple abstractions,
your application can support all of the
media formats that QuickTime supports.
All the video, all the audio,
all the still image,
all of the interactive formats.
I grabbed this page off of the web.
And the folks across the hall
did a nice job of integrating
it with my presentation.
The QuickTime product spec
actually lists about 200 different
formats now that we can support.
In the last year,
without you having to do any
work in your applications,
if you are already using
the QuickTime APIs we're
going to talk about today,
you have gained support for the
following formats in your app.
MPEG-4, along with MPEG-4 AAC audio.
JPEG-2000, a still image format.
We deliver support on that on Mac OS X.
Then 3GPP, you saw how many Ps did I say?
Anyway, you saw a demo this morning of
QuickTime together with cell phones
and the open standard 3GPP for
delivering video and audio to phones.
And together with that, the audio,
one of the audio formats
that's in the 3G spec AMR.
And finally, the most important one that
we're announcing for the
first time in this session,
Wave Format 49.
Thank you.
Some fans there of GSM Audio.
Okay, so the abstractions
that we just went over,
those have remained the
same for the last 12 years.
If you put those into your toolbox,
they will remain the same for
the indefinite future as well.
But some things have changed.
Now,
we didn't immediately realize this as
we delivered QuickTime for Mac OS X,
but some things around
QuickTime changed in the transition
from the classic Mac OS to Mac OS X.
Some things underneath QuickTime,
such as the file system
and the graphics subsystem,
and, well, the way we do audio, and, oh,
I don't know, the way events are handled,
and the way we do
concurrency and threading,
and, oh,
the way text is rendered on the platform.
Well,
a few things have changed since 1990.
And what we want to say is
we are trying to keep up.
So in our spare moments when
we're not delivering support
for new multimedia formats,
such as the list that I gave you just
then and others that I can't talk about,
or playing with new Pixlet
codecs or such things,
we are revving our APIs to make
QuickTime a better platform
citizen on all of the platforms
that we deliver QuickTime for.
So let's go through some of these topics.
Files will be my first one.
And we'll talk about new
APIs that you can use.
We're getting away from some
of the legacy data structures,
some of the legacy idioms for the way
things are talked about on Macintosh,
and adopting the new ones.
Now QuickTime,
though you may not believe it,
did not invent the FS spec.
There is a rumor that FSSpec first
appears in the Oxford English Dictionary.
There's a reference to it in
the obscure Canterbury tale,
The Hacker's Tale.
In fact,
the truth is that was a misappropriation.
The real FS spec was first delivered on
system 7 concurrently with QuickTime.
And QuickTime, of course,
adopted that data structure
for specifying files.
And our APIs are literally littered with
FS specs as parameters to various calls.
Now, that's not so convenient when
FS specs are no longer the
preferred way to refer to files.
So what do we have?
We have in QuickTime an abstraction
that we mentioned earlier,
the data reference that
allows you to refer to files,
to URLs, to other locations that media
might be stored in an abstract way.
And so with data references,
you can read data from media and play it.
You can write media back to
locations out in the world.
What we have with QuickTime 6.4 on
Panther are the data... ...references
that allow you to create new
APIs for creating data references
that you can use with QuickTime.
Here's an example of one of them.
Suppose you have a path to a file.
Maybe the name contains
Unicode characters.
You want to open that file
and play it as a movie.
What you do is the following.
Use this new API,
QT new data reference from full path,
CFString, and it will create a
data reference for you.
Let me show you an example of
what this might do in a moment.
We not only can create these
data references from full paths,
there are also APIs if you have
partial paths together with anchors,
if you have URLs, hey,
even if you have an FS spec.
We also support FS refs from
the Carbon File Manager.
Before I show you any
of the code snippets,
however, that you can just drop
in your application,
I want to say two words
about Enter Movies.
Call it.
This is how you distinguish
the afternoon session,
in which we're talking about real APIs,
from the morning session,
which is driven by not showing the APIs,
but showing the technology.
We're going to tell you, remind you,
that even on Mac OS X,
it's still necessary to call
Enter Movies before you call any
of the movie toolbox routines.
Here's just a caution.
If you're calling it from Cocoa, and yes,
we support calling these APIs from Cocoa,
if you have a class method that goes on
to call some movie toolbox functions,
some QuickTime APIs,
anything in the QuickTime framework,
it's probably a good idea to position
a call to Enter Movies somewhere
that's sure to be invoked before any
of your class methods are invoked.
So this is just an example
of how you might do that,
calling it from the
initialized class method.
Okay, so here's an example of using
that DataRef utility to determine
if QuickTime can open a file.
You want to call the
QuickTime API "Can QuickTime open
DataRef?" That will tell you,
"Can QuickTime open the
file?" It can also tell you,
"Do we prefer to open it
as a still image?" Or,
"Can it be an image?" Or,
"Does it prefer to be a movie?"
What you want to do is take the
form of reference that you have,
a path, a URL, what have you,
call the appropriate data reference
utility to create a data reference,
and then use that in
CanQuickTimeOpenDataRef.
And as I mentioned, the DataRef is a
handle-based data structure,
so before you go on
to doing other things,
please dispose of the handle if you're
not going to use that DataRef any longer.
It's not a reference-counted
item that's going to be disposed
of for you at some time.
and Kevin Calhoun.
So, let's talk about the
data reference utility.
Suppose you want to open
a movie from a file.
Same data reference utility,
Qt new data reference
from full path CFString.
Of course, if you have a different
form of reference,
use a different data ref utility.
The call that you use is
new movie from data ref.
This one call will work with the entire
range of formats that QuickTime supports.
You can open WAV files
locally from the Internet.
You can open AIFF files.
You can open 3GP files.
You can open .AMR files.
You can even offer WAV files
that are encoded with
Wave Format 49 with this one API.
Now, it's very important,
before I move on, to mention,
just to caution you,
it's very convenient in your applications
in your plists to list all of the file
extensions and all of the Mac OS file
types that you know how to open.
Well, that's great,
and it'll be fast for you to
check whether a particular file,
if it's dragged onto your document,
whether you can accept that drop by
checking whether its file extension
or its Mac OS file type is in that
list of things that you support.
However, you have to remember that if you
support dropping QuickTime media
on your applications,
QuickTime is always expanding the
set of media that it supports.
So you do want to call
CanQuickTimeOpenDataRef to determine
whether you can accept a drop of media.
For example, Keynote does that.
and when QuickTime 6.3 shipped,
it was immediately able to
support .3GP and .AMR files
without having to be revised.
Okay, open a movie from a URL,
same basic sequence,
different data ref utility.
Qt New Data Reference from CFURL.
Suppose I want to write
a movie to a file.
I want to create a new file or
I want to overwrite an existing file.
In this particular example,
I'm calling the same DataRef
utility Qt New Data Reference
from FullPath CFString,
but this time I'm referring to a
file that may or may not exist.
That will work just as well as
the earlier uses where we're
opening an existing file.
In this particular case,
in this code snippet,
there's a slight wrinkle.
I create the DataRef.
Then I say I want to create storage for
a movie at the location that the DataRef
points to by means of createMovieStorage.
If you take a look at
the parameters there,
you'll see that we're saying go
ahead and overwrite anything that
was already at that location.
We're also supplying an HFS creator
code to identify it as being
associated with our application.
What that call returns,
createMovieStorage,
is an instance of a data handler.
You can think of it as an object that
will just do the writing for you.
It is, in fact,
an instance of a component,
a QuickTime component that knows
how to read and write data from data
references of the type that was returned
in this case by Qt New Data Reference
from FullPath CFString.
So that thing will know how to
write the movie to that storage,
and it will do that when
I call add movie to storage.
I tell the data handler,
please do that work for me.
And once I'm done,
I say close movie storage.
That will close down an open connection
or close an open reference to a file.
And it will also close the
instance of the data handler.
And since I'm done with the data ref,
I dispose of it.
This snippet of code will be capable of
writing movies to any type of storage
that QuickTime has a data handler.
So this will work with files and
other forms of storage as well.
And of course, more immediately,
it will work whether your path
names have Unicode characters
or any other sort of characters.
I should have mentioned earlier
that in the call QT new data
reference from full path CFString,
that is a mouthful.
You tell us the type of path that is.
We typically give that type of path
as the native or default type of path,
but we support a range
of path types as well.
Okay, you can do a similar thing in
Cocoa without telling QuickTime to
write to the file via add movie
storage or something like that.
You can get from QuickTime a serialized
form of the movie in memory by
means of put movie into handle.
That will give you the thing
that you want to write someplace.
And then in this particular
snippet I'm using NSData.
I'm actually copying that serialized
form to an instance of NSData,
then using NSData to write out the file.
So this will work perfectly well also.
For extra credit,
if you can rewrite this code snippet not
to copy the serialized movie in memory,
I will say a hearty congratulations.
It is possible,
but it goes beyond the scope of what
we're going to talk about today.
All right,
so what did I write in those snippets?
I wrote movies to files.
And as we said earlier,
a movie is just a catalog.
It's just organizing data.
It doesn't necessarily
include the media also.
Well, what if I want to write the movie,
the organizing catalog,
together with the media?
In QuickTime parlance,
that's called flattening
the movie to a location.
And the API for doing that is
flatten movie data to data ref.
Get a data ref, flatten the movie to it,
and you're off.
You now have a file,
in this particular case,
with all of the media data and the
movie stored in the same place.
Okay.
So here's something that I know that we
haven't shown on a WWDC stage before.
And as soon as I show you this,
I'm going to show you how you can
get into serious trouble using this.
If you want to know what
media a movie plays,
it's possible to do that.
All you need to do is to iterate through
the data references that a movie uses.
And here's how to do it.
You use the abstractions
that we talked about earlier.
In this particular case,
I'm looking at the first
track of the movie.
But of course,
I can iterate through all the
tracks in a more involved example.
That wouldn't fit on a slide.
And I get the media for that track.
[Transcript missing]
Once I have the data handler,
I have another set of data reference
utilities that I haven't mentioned yet
that allow you to get information back
from a data handler about a data ref.
In this case,
I just want the full path back.
I want to know where these files are
and I want to be able to manipulate
them with other APIs in NSFileManager,
for example, or in the CarbonFileManager.
And here's how we do it.
Make sure you clean up,
close down your data handlers,
dispose your handles, and everybody else.
And here's how we do it.
Make sure you clean up,
close down your data handlers,
dispose your handles, and everybody else.
for a graphical interlude.
We got these cool graphics last week.
and the advice to mark all of our
code snippets either with this best
practices icon or with a different icon.
Now I didn't have time to do all that,
so I wanted to tell you that if you're
used to seeing these icons during the
show and you're reluctant to use any code
snippets that are not marked in that way,
all of the code snippets
in this presentation,
unless otherwise noted,
are best practices.
They've been certified by a board of
QuickTime API engineers who are sitting,
I think, right over there.
Now after saying that,
I will immediately show you something
that is not a best practice.
In this particular case,
I'm going to use the power that
I've just given out to the whole
world to iterate through all
the data references in a movie,
and I'm going to load all the media
data into memory in one small loop.
Now,
this is a very interesting thing to do,
and it might be fun if
you want to swamp the VM,
but it's something to avoid.
If QuickTime is capable of playing
large amounts of media data
without loading it all into memory,
it's probably possible for you to examine
it or copy it or do whatever you need to
do without loading it all into memory,
too.
You should be aware that these
data refs can point to very
large amounts of media data,
gigabytes worth of DV or audio
or high-res video of some kind,
and it's probably not a good idea
to write code that loads arbitrary
media into memory like this.
Okay, so I can open movies,
I can write movies back to files.
Suppose I wanna write a movie
to a different kind of file.
I wanna export data from a movie
to a different file format.
Here's a code snippet using the DataRef
utilities that takes the audio from
a movie and exports it to a WAV file.
[Transcript missing]
So we've talked about movies.
The same procedures
work for opening images.
How can you draw in any image in
any format that QuickTime supports?
Get a data reference,
then get a graphics importer
for that data ref using the
interestingly named API,
getGraphicsImporterForDataRef with flags.
A graphics importer is an object,
again it's an instance
of a QuickTime component,
but you can think of it as an object that
has methods that do things with images,
like draw them, or transform them,
or export them to other formats.
For example,
if I wanted to export an image to a file,
all I need to do is open an
instance of a graphics exporter.
In this particular snippet,
I happen to be using the ping
exporter because ping is an
excellent graphic image file format.
Once I've got that open,
I want to tell that instance
of the graphic exporter what
the source of the image is.
I'm saying, please make the source of the
image to export this graphics
importer I just opened a moment ago
using the method that I showed you,
getting a graphics
importer for a data ref.
Then I want to tell the
graphics exporter where to write
the image file by means of,
again, a data reference.
Then I tell it to do the export.
And with that few lines of code,
you can write any of the image file
formats that QuickTime can write.
And of course, clean things up,
close components, dispose handles.
So that covers the basic level
of data reference utilities.
We hope this will get you
past some of the blockers,
some of the conceptual blockers that
developers have run into looking
at the QuickTime APIs for the first
time on Mac OS X and saying some of
these things are not like the other.
We're trying to be more like the
other and make it easier for you.
All right,
so let's move on to graphics subsystems.
Things have changed in graphics.
When QuickTime, in its nascent years,
it's the native graphics subsystem was,
of course, QuickDraw on the classic Mac.
Since then, other graphics systems
have become available also.
Now I want to say, like I said for files,
that we have an abstraction that
will shield you from all the details
of all these graphic subsystems.
And if you use our abstraction,
then you don't have to worry
about the details of the
underlying graphic subsystem.
And if I said that,
it wouldn't quite be true,
but we have something of that flavor.
We still use some of the basic
quick draw data structures and APIs,
but you can use them in combination
with the graphics subsystem that
you are using in your application.
And I'll talk about how to do that.
If you want to play a movie in a window,
what you need to do is to get from
the window its QuickDraw port.
And that's a very simple thing
to do in Carbon or Cocoa.
If you have the Carbon window ref,
you get the QuickDraw port
that's associated with that
window by means of getWindowPort.
Then you can tell QuickTime to
draw a movie there by means
of the API setMovieGWorld.
In Cocoa, you can get the Carbon window
ref from NSWindow from a
public method called windowRef.
So this is all very straightforward.
But you say, I wish to play movies
into off-screen buffers.
How do I do that?
Well, if you have the buffer set up
and all you know is the pointer,
the location in memory where the
pixels are going to be drawn,
you know the bytes per
row of your buffer,
you know the size of your buffer,
the width and height.
And one more thing,
you need to know the QuickDraw pixel
format or you need to map from the
pixel format that you're using,
whether it's a CoreGraphs and Quartz
pixel format or an OpenGL one.
You need to do a little mapping
to the QuickTime or QuickDraw way
to describe that pixel format.
Then you can create a data structure
that allows us to draw the movie there.
You call newGWorld from pointer
with that information and that
will allocate a GWorld that allows
QuickTime to access those bits.
Yes.
Your buffer, which you may be doing
other things too also.
You might be composing movies
with other things and so forth.
This is exactly what Keynote does,
by the way, to be able to render
movies to OpenGL textures.
It creates a GWorld that
QuickTime can use to render
to that same area of memory.
Okay, same thing for images.
In this case,
you create the GWorld and then
use Graphics Import Set GWorld
to do the same thing.
Then Graphics Import Draw to draw there.
[Transcript missing]
The key API call here is
QDPickedDrawToCGContext.
This is a public API that you can use.
This method will work for you.
All of these code snippets, by the way,
are available in a document that we're
making available via your ADC connection.
So you don't have to jot all this down.
In fact, the samples in that document
are a little bit more,
are a little bit fuller than
what I'm able to show on stage.
Again, I'm cleaning up after things.
How old is the API kill picture?
Does anyone know?
How many WWCs have you been to?
enough to know?
Well, that's more than enough.
Okay.
So CG images, you don't have to get a
quick draw picture to do
all operations in QuickTime.
We now support the ability to read
still images and give you a CG image
and we support the ability to take a
CG image and write out to an image file.
A new graphics importer call,
graphics import create CG image,
will give you a CG image from any
format that QuickTime can read by a
graphics importers by this method.
And similarly,
you can write out two image files from
a CG image using graphic exporters.
We saw the example before of
how to use a graphics exporter.
The only difference here is I'm using the
API graphics export set input CG image to
tell the exporter to take the image from
the CG image and then write that out.
How many dispose handles have
I shown during this session?
It's probably more than you've seen
anywhere else at this conference so far.
Okay, so let's take a break for a
few minutes from code snippets.
Something else that has become more
widespread on the OS is color matching.
Tim Schaaf mentioned it this morning.
So I won't repeat all of this except to
underscore the point that by default,
graphics importers will match
when they draw if there is a
color profile stored in the image.
This happens by default.
You don't have to do any work.
So when Tim Schaaf showed
his demo of BBEdit suddenly
able to do color matching,
did that require any changes to BBEdit?
Well, no.
It's just using graphics
importers and now it just works.
However,
something that Tim didn't mention
is that if you use some of the code
snippets I showed you to translate from
one graphics image format to another,
you should be aware that we now,
as much as the image format allows us,
move the color profile over from
the source to the definition--to the
destination and this just happens.
It just works.
More details about how to do this,
particularly if you're already
doing color matching of your own
when using graphics importers,
come to session 716,
Advanced QuickTime Programming Techniques
and there they will speak even more
advanced language than I'm capable of
Another subsystem that's changed
underneath QuickTime we are
changing to keep up is audio.
We have on Mac OS X core audio.
You heard this morning that we
have a complete reimplementation
of QuickTime sound media
on top of core audio.
You have the opportunity to try
that out on your Panther C disk
once you install that.
One of the things that wasn't
mentioned this morning,
just as you can use QuickTime in
combination with Quartz in the
ways that I told you earlier,
you can use QuickTime in
combination with Core Audio.
Come to session 7.11 to find out how
to extract audio from a movie in a form
that you can manipulate using Core Audio.
So these technologies work together
better than they ever have before.
All right, another area that's changed
underneath and around QuickTime.
We have a new text rendering
engine on Mac OS X.
It's the Apple type system
for Unicode imaging,
and it stands for something.
and in any case,
it is the native rendering
engine for Unicode on Mac OS X.
And it does a great job
of rendering Unicode.
What QuickTime has
done on the Mac before,
you could always store Unicode text
in your movies since QuickTime 3.
On Mac, however,
we were transcoding the Unicode to a
different encoding before rendering it.
And so you lost some faithfulness
to--some fidelity to the text.
That's no longer the case.
We have complete fidelity to
Unicode text when rendering.
Now, there's a cost and I want
to be clear on this.
You're going to lose the ability
to render text with QuickDraw
Shadow or QuickDraw Outline.
Yeah.
How many people here have looked
at what QuickDraw does to add
a shadow to a bitmap font?
How long has it been?
Take a look again.
If you're worried about the loss of this,
take one look and you
won't worry anymore.
Let me give you a quick demo.
is going to be talking about
the new features of QuickTime 6.
Hello, everyone.
I'm Kevin Calhoun,
and I'm going to be talking about
the new features of QuickTime 6.
A description in XML format of
what a text track might look like.
Here, starting with QuickTime 6.3,
we have the ability to
specify Unicode text.
We're using UTF-8 encoding in this
example because it is stored as XML.
And we have the ability--let
me highlight this for you.
It's hard to see in the back, I know,
but you can set an attribute that says,
"Write the text vertically."
What does it look like?
Well, let me import it with
QuickTime right now.
The very same XML document.
And this is what it looks like.
The first frame renders the
text horizontally and you
see that if I scale it down,
scale it up,
we have a very smooth text now.
And the second frame writes
the same text vertically.
So that's all available for you.
Once you have this
text into a text track,
of course you can move it
around with QuickTime media
just as easily as any other.
Let's move back to slides.
All right, so we talked about some
subsystems that have changed.
Things that have changed around and above
QuickTime include the user interface.
Now,
this has changed somewhat since 1990.
For example,
we don't have modal dialogs anymore.
We have panels.
But not only has the terminology changed,
also the way that users interact
with these things have changed
and their appearance has
changed quite a bit as well.
QuickTime has some UI of its
own that you can display in your
applications for configuring
operations such as recompression,
export, import.
If you choose to display this UI,
you get well-standard UI that
may or may not match the
other UI in your application.
That's a problem that we're
going to be working on over time.
We're going to tell you
how we're going to do that.
But the good news is,
and I'll show you some
code snippets in a moment,
you can now display certain
QuickTime modal dialogs as sheets.
All right,
so we talked about some subsystems that
have changed around and above QuickTime.
For example, we have panels.
But not only has the terminology
changed around and above QuickTime,
we're going to tell you
how we're going to do that.
But the good news is,
and I'll show you some
code snippets in a moment,
you can now display certain
QuickTime modal dialogs as sheets.
is the founder of the
component properties.
First some code snippets.
If you want to display QuickTime standard
compression dialogues as sheets,
we have a new scSetInfo,
the standard compression set info
API selector that tells you to
display a dialogue as a sheet instead.
You tell it what the parent window is.
If you have the Carbon window ref,
it'll just work.
And when you say scRequestImageSettings
the standard compression sheet will
now come down from the window title
bar as you would expect on Mac OS X.
It's also possible to do that
with a video compression dialog.
And it's also possible to do,
as I mentioned, with the effects
parameter dialog as well.
What we do in this case is we call
Qt Create Standard Parameter Dialog,
setting the option
PDOptionsDisplayAsSheet.
And then we tell it to
do something clever.
This API was originally designed
to work with the classic
Macintosh Dialog Manager,
mode-less dialog support.
Now we just tell the parameter dialog
to run itself in its own event loop.
And that's what it does.
It brings down the sheet in this case,
handles the user interaction,
and then when the user dismisses it,
it goes away and you have the
settings that the user selected.
Okay, I'm running behind,
so instead of showing you sheets
coming down from title bars,
I'm just going to stay with the slides.
Sorry about that.
Meantime, someone can translate the text
that we put into that movie.
Okay, component properties.
This is an important direction for us.
If you are a developer of a
movie exporter or of a codec
or of anything that is used in
combination with a QuickTime process,
we would like to work with you
over the next year to standardize
sets of properties that are
common for your component type.
You can imagine that exporters will
have a common set of properties and we
would like to roll out in a way that's
similar to the way over time Apple worked
with developers to add support for
Apple events in their applications
with standard Apple event suites.
We want to work with component
developers to add support for
standard property settings.
This will allow us to
factor the configuration of
QuickTime operations from UI.
So you'll hear a lot more about
that from us over the lifetime
of Panther and QuickTime 6.
You'll see these APIs in the
QuickTime framework in your Panther seed.
These APIs are actually part
of the component manager,
although they're not in that
framework that the component manager
is part of on your seed disk.
Okay, so you'll hear more about
that in the upcoming months.
All right, something else has changed.
It is now possible to do
operations on concurrent threads,
and there are many different threading
models that are available on Mac OS X.
However, there's been some difficulty to
date of making QuickTime processes
operate on secondary threads.
We really wanted to
operate on the main thread.
Now we have the ability,
as was mentioned this morning,
for a certain set of operations
to configure them and to carry
them out on secondary threads
that do not block the UI.
This is a major win if
you have an application,
for example, that exports a lot of data.
You saw my code snippet earlier
for exporting audio to a WAV file.
What if that's a lot of data?
Does the user just have to wait
around while a progress dialog
tells me how much has happened?
Well, we have the ability now for certain
processes and certain operations
to happen on alternate threads.
More details in the advanced
QuickTime programming technique session.
Please come to that to
find out how to do that.
Especially come to that
if you are already calling
QuickTime APIs not on the main thread,
because you may have interesting side
effects that you're not aware of.
There are certain restrictions
that you want to be aware of.
Now you'll note that even though that
this is a fairly introductory session to
QuickTime APIs and to QuickTime new APIs,
I have departed from
many years of tradition.
I have not shown you how to take a
movie that I've opened and then create
a movie controller for that movie,
and how to put the movie
controller in a window,
and how to route user events
to the movie controller.
That, I think,
has been shown at every single
QuickTime API session since 1935.
But today we are breaking with tradition
because we have finally arrived at a
point at which we have intermediate level
modules that will do that work for you.
You don't have to worry
about it any longer.
So if you use these APIs I've shown
you to get a movie from a file
or some other place in the world,
all you need to do is tell that movie,
well, you movie,
you play in this NSMovieView.
Or you, you movie,
you play in this CarbonMovieControl.
There are also third-party
ActiveX controls available
if you're using Win32 APIs.
And those things are able to take care
of all those programming details for you.
Like, well,
how do I get an event in the form
of a classic event record to tell
the movie that a click happened?
Don't even worry about it.
However, if you choose to worry about it,
there are some details that
you might want to be aware of.
For example, the age-old question,
"How do I tell QuickTime
Well, here's some time for
you to do processing.
QuickTime movies,
since they're normally heavily
display oriented if you're playing
them where the user can see them,
they do run on the main thread.
And QuickTime is architected in such a
way that playback doesn't block the UI.
But the way that it works is that the
application has to tell QuickTime,
here's a little slice of time that
you can use for doing some processing.
Fetch some media that you need to decode.
And decode some.
And oh, by the way,
return in like no time at all.
So here is what you will
want to do on Mac OS X.
We now have a science,
whereas before it was all magic,
we now have science attached to how
often you need to tell QuickTime,
here's a little time for processing.
What I have here is a snippet
of code that I'm using in
combination with a CF timer.
And when my CF timer's time task fires,
what I'm going to do is I'm
going to tell a set of objects,
in this particular case,
this primary objects or
underscore primary objects thing,
it might be a CF set,
it's a list of objects that
manage QuickTime movies,
I'm going to tell all of them,
run your function, run your application,
and then I'm going to tell
them to run the function.
[Transcript missing]
or we really need you to
do it again real fast.
And so QuickTime will return
to you an interval that you can
wait before calling this again.
And then what you want to do is
tell your CF timer to fire after
that interval has expired and then
this will happen again and all your
QuickTime movies will be tasked.
You can set a minimum interval
so that you're not spending
all the CPU time doing this.
And then the function that you
might fire on your objects,
that setApplier function,
might cause this to be fired
on all of your objects.
In this case, I'm using a Cocoa example.
I actually am using an NSTimer with
a toll-free bridge to CFTimer to
fire this function that will tell
all of my objects the value parameter
passed in here to call a method idle.
And that idle method will
probably call QuickTime and say
MCIdle if it's using the movie
controller or moviesTask if not.
So that's how to do that on Mac OS X.
Here's something really obscure.
But I promised that I was going
to answer this question at
the beginning of the session.
And since I am forced to keep my promise
or they'll throw me off the stage,
what if I have an NSTime interval
and I want to tell QuickTime that's
that amount of time?
What do I do?
An NSTime interval is
a floating point value.
It's a double precision value
that expresses a number of
seconds as a floating point value.
What I want to do is turn this into
a data structure that QuickTime can
recognize as that same amount of time.
Well,
what we're doing here is using some--an
obscure function in the math package.
Please give me the magnitude
of that NSTime interval.
And according to the magnitude,
that's the frex--.
is the founder of the
NSTimeInterval function.
According to the magnitude
of that NSTimeInterval,
we're going to choose a time scale to use
to represent the time value in QuickTime.
So if the value is really large,
we're going to use a smaller time scale.
If the value is relatively small,
we'll use microseconds because
that's a very good timescale
to use with QuickTime.
Then once we've chosen the timescale,
we're going to go ahead and convert
that NSTimeValue to a time value.
We multiply the value by the timescale
and write it into the time record.
So if you're trying to call
an API like setMovieTime,
where the time interval has been
expressed to you as an NSTime interval,
you can use a function like
this to do the conversion.
You're thinking, why did I show that?
OK.
So I mentioned to you earlier,
to take care of a lot of these details,
you can use higher level objects
that know how to do things
like process user events.
They know how to task movies.
In some cases,
they have higher level methods
so that you don't even have to
use any of the file manipulation
that I showed you earlier.
For Carbon, we have the movie control.
For Cocoa, we have nsmovieview.
And for Java, we have two components,
a Java AWT component and a Java Swing
J component that you can use.
And I mentioned there are third
party ActiveX controls as well.
If you're a Carbon app,
you can use a Carbon movie
control via the simple API,
create movie control,
and it will do all the work for you.
We're revising the Carbon movie control
to fix the major gotcha with it,
so that there were some limitations
in its use if you combined it with
the use of HI views in a Carbon app,
some problems with setting the clip.
We're going to take care of
that for you in QuickTime 6.4.
Let me show you just
how easy that can be.
So back to Xcode, recent project,
demo movie control.
Here I have a very
simple application that,
well, plays arbitrary QuickTime movies.
Basically,
since you probably can't see the whole
flow of code in the back of the room,
it does call and their movies.
It's a good citizen.
It prepares QuickTime for calls
upon movie toolbox functions.
It then calls a function
that implements itself,
"Give me a movie," that uses some of the
very same APIs that I showed you earlier.
What this function does is uses a panel
to allow the user to select a file and
extracts from the API that displays
the panel a reference to the file.
Then it creates a data ref for
that file and opens the movie
via a new movie from data ref.
Then what it does is creates
a Carbon movie control where
I create movie control.
And it does a little
housekeeping with the control.
And that's basically it.
That's all it takes for your
application using Carbon to be able
to display arbitrary QuickTime media.
So I should be able to open up any of
these movies that I created earlier.
I have a little bug here.
I've got to resize this
before it shows up.
and here it is.
This slide show that iPhoto created
can be displayed in this Carbon app
with just that amount of code.
something similar in Cocoa.
In this particular example,
I was too lazy even to alter the example.
This simple Cocoa movie is available for
you as sample code on Apple's website.
It uses NSMovie and NSMovieView in order
to implement a very simple application
that does something very similar.
In this particular case,
instead of displaying a panel to allow
the user to choose arbitrary media,
it reads the media from the application
bundle itself using NSBundle.
Well, how does it do that?
It gets the URL for the
media from NSBundle,
creates a data ref for the URL,
and then uses new movie from data ref.
And then it opens up the movie
and displays it in an NSMovieView.
Thank you for the audio.
Should have turned it down.
Okay, so that's all that you need to do.
Back to slides.
If you are using Java,
the good news is our support for
QuickTime for Java is ongoing.
We have a new version
of QuickTime for Java,
Java 6.1 is its version number,
that's available for seeding, I believe,
today.
You can get access to it
from your ADC account.
It works with both JDK 1.3
and 1.4.1 on Windows with the
Sun Java VM and on Mac OS X.
It has a complete up-to-date set
of bindings to QuickTime C APIs.
So all the APIs that we've
gone over today and the other
APIs in QuickTime's API set,
you can call using QuickTime for Java.
But it also has higher level
modules in the QuickTime.app.view
package for displaying movies,
both using an AWT component and a
swing component that you can use.
Now, if you're using earlier
versions of QuickTime for Java,
some code migration might be necessary.
We'll talk about the details in a moment.
But let's look inside the
package to see what you get.
We have a number of classes
that will do some work for you.
If you have some media and
some references to the media,
you can use a QuickTime factory
class to create the components
to display the media.
We have some holdovers from the
earlier version of QuickTime for Java,
Qt Image Producer, Movie Player,
Graphics Importer Draw we
continue to support.
The Java AWT component and
the QuickTime Swing component,
I believe I have misnamed on this slide.
This name doesn't match
what's in the Seed,
but don't worry,
we'll reconcile that shortly.
And here's an example
of how you can use this.
If you're using
Java AWT to display things,
this is basically all you have to do.
If you have a path, you say new Qt file,
and then you say you want
a movie from that file,
create a movie controller for that movie,
and then you want Qt Factory to create
a Java AWT component that is capable
of displaying that movie and knows how
to allow the user to interact with it.
That's all you need to do.
If you're using Swing, similar code.
In this case,
you're saying that you want a
movie player from the movie,
and then you want from Qt
Factory the Swing component that's
capable of displaying an instance
of the Swing component that's
capable of displaying the movie.
and that's all there is to that and
you can display all the QuickTime media
that you've seen here at this
session in your Java applications.
Now, I mentioned earlier that
some code migration might be
necessary if you're using earlier
versions of QuickTime for Java.
We have deprecated a number of packages.
Some of these are smaller packages
and some of them were larger.
But why have we done this?
There are two reasons.
One, some of these packages depended on
behavior that was available on legacy
versions of OSs that QuickTime was housed
on and that were supported in legacy
implementations of Java SDK on Mac.
For example, some of these were tightly
coupled with QuickDraw support.
So what we've done is said, well,
instead of supporting
all of that legacy stuff,
what we want to do is to move
towards a model which is more
consistent with the standards that
have emerged in Java over time.
A number of the classes in these
packages were designed before
standards emerged in Java,
such as Java Swing.
So we gave you solutions for doing things
in these packages that were completely
orthogonal to the way Java application
developers typically work today.
So what we're doing now is we're changing
our support at that intermediate level
to adopt the standards that have emerged.
Now some of these packages may have
things in them that you are dependent on.
Some code migration will
be necessary on your part.
Be part of the seed,
find out the details,
and then work with us.
We'll help you make the move
and we'll talk about options.
I have a demo over on my Windows machine.
[Transcript missing]
Here is an example of the use of the
Java AWT component that we supply
for you in QuickTime for Java.
It has the ability, of course,
to play the movie.
with high quality audio straight
out of my bio and the ability
to select an alternate piece
of media from using standard
Java UI and display that as well.
Quick example of
[Transcript missing]
We're using here several
instances of our swing component
together with some other things.
This is Java animation down here.
And here is an image
using the image drawer.
And here is a movie.
Now I show you this on Windows to
illustrate the point that this is
going to work with exactly the same
implementation on both Mac OS X and
on Windows using the same Java code.
It delivers on the promise
of the cross-platform
compatibility of Java apps.
Okay.
Back to slides.
Ooh, quicker than I am.
I haven't talked too much about
QuickTime for Cocoa as yet.
I thought at one point while we were
developing the session that I would
have a fantastic announcement to make
for you at the end of the session
that would keep you on the edge
of your seats for the entire time.
However,
Tim Schaaf went and blew it this morning
and told you that we're doing initial
work on QuickTime for Cocoa and we'll
have a seed later this summer that goes
beyond what's already available for
support for QuickTime in the app kit.
Well,
let's talk about what that support is
that you already have in the app kit.
You have NSMovieView and NSMovie.
They provide fundamental support that
has matured and is extremely reliable.
You can, with these classes,
manage and play all of the media
formats that QuickTime supports.
Very simple to use.
You don't even have to go down to
the C-level API to open a movie
from an arbitrary file or URL.
Example of usage is up there on the wall.
A number of Apple applications
use this facility.
Sherlock uses this, for example,
to display movie trailers
in its movies channel.
What are we going to do?
Suppose you put a bunch of
QuickTime programmers together in a
room and you gave them the problem of
designing and implementing a set of
Cocoa classes that integrated well with
Foundation and AppKit that used the
same data structures and methodologies
that were common in Cocoa applications.
And yet, had the flavor of QuickTime,
what would we do?
Well, naturally,
what we would do is to use the very
same abstractions that we talked
about at the beginning of the session.
The same ways that we talk about media
in QuickTime for the last 12 years,
we're going to talk about
it in Cocoa as well.
Here's a sampling of the kinds of classes
that you can expect from us when we see
QuickTime for Cocoa later this summer.
You'll be able to manipulate movies.
A lot of the very same code that
I've put in my slides will be in
the implementation of Qt Movie.
So now,
after you've sat through all of this,
you can realize if
you're a Cocoa developer,
I didn't need to know that at all.
Because we'll take care of all
of that for you in these classes.
So now it will be possible with even
fewer lines of code for you to load all
the media that a movie plays into memory.
Finally,
we have some classes that help us to
bridge to other APIs in common use.
I listed QT time here because it
knows how to do that FREXP thing
that I mentioned earlier.
You can initialize a time,
a QT time from an NS time interval,
from a time record, from a time value,
from a time value of 64,
from a comp time value,
are there any more?
And it will know how to deal with it
and then you can pass that around to
express time in QuickTime for Cocoa.
So look for that later this summer.
If you are interested in this session,
please do not hesitate to contact us.
We are happy to answer
any questions you have.
Thank you.
I hope you enjoyed this session.
I hope you enjoyed it.
We will see you next time.
Bye-bye.
Okay, so I covered a lot of
material in this session.
There's a lot more to be said
about new QuickTime APIs and new
capabilities here at the conference.
Now, I want to tell you,
even if you use these intermediate
level modules like NSMovieView or
the Carbon Movie Control,
in all of these environments,
including Java, you have access to the
QuickTime primitives,
the movie, the track, the media,
and you can use the
QuickTime C APIs if you need to,
to extend the functionality
of the classes,
the modules that you're using.
Also, as requirements
are presented to the QuickTime team.
We expand and update our
API sets to cover new needs.
This is happening all the time.
QuickTime is a living work.
This year alone,
we're talking about threading,
we're talking about new audio facilities,
we're talking about
improved color matching.
You can expect this kind of expansion
and an increase in functionality
from QuickTime every year.
You can gain access to all this
functionality in your applications.
Use the APIs that I've mentioned,
and your application
will grow with QuickTime.
Now, if you have needs that
I haven't covered here,
if you have some problems in your
application that we haven't talked about,
an excellent place for you to go to get
more information is the QuickTime Lab in
Sacramento downstairs by the cafe.
But there are other sessions for you
to go to as well where some of these
topics will be covered formally.
If you didn't go to the
State of the Union this morning,
well, buy the DVD.
The session that will cover more
details about audio in QuickTime,
well, how exactly did we reimplement
QuickTime sound media using Core Audio?
I don't know if I'll actually
tell you all the details,
but how can I use Core Audio in
combination with QuickTime?
Go to the session in Russian Hill.
That's Wednesday, tomorrow, 9 a.m.
Get up early.
Be here.
What if I want to know these advanced
QuickTime programming techniques such as,
well, multi-threading?
Come to the session in Pacific Heights.
That's tomorrow at 2:00 PM.
In fact, that's this room here,
I believe.
will camp out right back here.
Plenty of room.
All right, what if I want to follow up on
something that was mentioned
by Tim Schaaf this morning?
What if I want to plug in modules
to QuickTime Streaming Server to add
functionality on the server side?
Come to the QuickTime Streaming
Server programming session.
That's at the mission, 2 p.m.
Thursday.
Finally,
something that I didn't mention here,
but similar to the flavor of these
intermediate modules that I talked
about for Cocoa and for Carbon,
there is the ability to use QuickTime in
other programming environments as well.
Well, what if I just want to play a
QuickTime movie in my Visual Basic app?
Yes, I can say Visual Basic on
this stage at this conference.
I think.
What if I want to play a
QuickTime movie in my application that
I created with Apple Script Studio?
What if I want to play a
QuickTime movie in an application
I create with Real Basic?
There's a session that will cover
the details of how to do that.
It's called QuickTime Alternative
Programming Environments.
Lots of great music,
lots of great programming.
Pacific Heights, this room, Friday,
10:30.
Is there music?
No music.
Okay, so if you have questions after
the conference and you want to
email somebody to make sure the
question is appropriately routed,
your person to contact, Guillermo Ortiz,
QuickTime man,
can you do any better than that,
at Apple.com.
Also an alternative contact
for the QuickTime Cocoa seat,
so QT Cocoa seat at
Apple.com or QuickTime man.
for yet more information.
You can turn to the reference library
that's available for QuickTime already
on the Apple developer website.
QuickTime, of course,
is a mature technology.
It's well documented.
And here are some documents
that have been made available
recently for QuickTime and
their paths from the ADC home.
So shop for information on the web.
And yet more places to look
on the web for information.
and Kevin Calhoun.
And finally,
if you miss any of the others,
do not miss the opportunity to
meet with QuickTime engineers,
those irascible yet charming engineers
who provide QuickTime for you.
In fact,
provide a new version of QuickTime every
several weeks for you are here at
the conference and they're at the
QuickTime lab and they're willing to help
you use QuickTime in your application.
So go there and find out just how
dedicated these people really are.